the tissue repository is an invaluable
resource which has allowed us to really
Bank human tissue samples from patients
with myelodysplastic syndrome and
leukemia over the course of 20 years
this which allows us to perform what we
otherwise impossible to perform which is
long attitudinal studies asking a
question about what happened about the
evolution of this disease starting 15
years ago and tracking in the same
patient over time what happens is how is
the disease evolving what new clones are
arising how is the patient responding to
any kind of therapy but right down at
the cellular level so it's like it's
like having the unimaginable laboratory
in which you can track the course of a
disease not in a single point of time
but over its entire history we have over
50,000 samples from thousands of MDS
patients other people may have hundreds
or thousands of samples but you see our
strength is that we have followed the
same patient serially some of them over
20 years for me it was really an
opportunity to combine what we were
doing in the laboratory with
translational work really pioneering
work that had been done and now begin to
combine these two aspects of the program
but for human benefit for really
creating novel medicines for patients
that we wouldn't be able to do otherwise
you can't just early one patient in a
static one moment in time what we have
to do is study the same patient serially
sequentially longitudinally so it's a
bi-directional translational that is
constantly going on but let's say you're
being treated over the course of over
the course of a decade and we discover
late that you suddenly had a change in
the biology of your cancer what's
amazing about is that we can go to the
freezer and pick out a sample which was
before that change and after the change
and compare them and ask the question
what happened at the molecular level the
genetic level what happen and can we now
use that information when we give you
the next series of drugs in a very
powerful way the tissue repository
allows us to do two things number one it
allows us to personalize cancer therapy
which is
one of the very important goals of the
MDS Center and the second thing is that
allows us to create innovative therapies
that wouldn't exist otherwise one of the
things that we're trying to do is we're
trying to create microscopic you know
you can you can barely see them in your
eye but microscopic wells in which we
take a patient's own micro environment
and a patient's own cancer cells and we
make them collaborate in the little
petri dish and you can now add drugs to
that outside the patient before these
even these drugs even go into the
patient you can add drugs to that and
say well is this little micro
environment responding or not responding
to a drug and therefore in the second
generation of trials now we can really
personalize the medicine we can only
give the medicine to people are
responding and spare the people who are
not responding and give them other
medicines it has infinite potential for
developing individualized therapies of
the future we are interested in creating
human medicines for human disease every
year has brought a kind of illuminating
clarity about what goes wrong in a
cancer cell and how it's different from
a normal cell the whole field is just
erupting with excitement and tired
landscape has changed and our commitment
has become even stronger the presence of
the tissue depositor ignore presbyterian
I think allows us to really to be poised
for a future of personalized therapy
trials as it's the foundation for the
future this is the only way that we will
be able to convert MDS into a chronic
disease that patients can live with and
not die from and this is the paradigm
that will then be extended to the study
and treatment of all cancers
you